Hey guys, welcome back to the course. In this lecture,
we're going to get you set up and understanding
Google Analytics so you can get it on your site and you
can start stalking your customers the proper way.
As I mentioned earlier, Google Analytics is
the wheat bread of analytics platforms.
It's free,
we've established that we're cheapskates,
and it's also quite powerful.
So you get a lot of bang for your nonexistent buck.
Most importantly though, it's going to help you figure
out where people are coming from and then what
they're looking at when they get to
your site - this is crucial information.
So let's check it out and see what it looks like.
After that we'll take a look at some of the data from
my projects and get you familiar with what's what.
If you already have it installed on your site,
feel free to skip to the next lecture or blast through this
one at 2x speed, so I sound kind of like a chipmunk.
For this demo, I'm assuming you have a Google account
already, you know, use Gmail or any of the Google products,
but if you don't, I mean, you can create it in 10 seconds.
Anyway, to start this journey, go to analytics.google.com.
Here's what it looks like when you're starting from scratch.
Hey, look at that.
Google basically spells out exactly
what we're going to do in three steps.
First we're going to sign up for Google Analytics,
we're going to add our tracking code to our website,
and then we're going to learn more about our audience.
Anyway, so click Sign Up.
Let's say I'm looking to learn about
the traffic I've been receiving to
my new site. It's called, I don't know,
we'll call it Carl's Creampuffs.
So I'll put that in here for the account name.
I'll just put in the same thing under website name.
Nobody will see these except for you, so just put
in something that makes sense for your project.
And, of course, the website URL is going to be
carlscreampuffs.com. If that's secretly slang for
something bad, I don't want to know.
Now, select an industry category.
There's a list of a bunch of different industries in here.
Just pick what makes sense for your business.
I'm going to select beauty and fitness, because everybody
knows consuming cream puffs on a regular basis
will make you look amazing.
You can select whatever time zone you're in obviously.
Otherwise, we're just going to leave the rest of the
options selected as they recommend and then click
"Get Tracking ID" here at the bottom.
See? It really doesn't take long at all.
And, of course, we don't actually read the Terms of
Service and we just blindly hit "I accept," which most
likely means I've signed away my first born child - whatever.
OK.
Now you should see that Google gives you a little pop-up
which points out our new tracking ID number
and says we need to install it on our website.
We'll do that here in a second.
Scroll down just a bit and see this
section about website tracking.
This is where the code snippet is that we'll use on our
site. Just highlight this little bit of code and then copy it.
And that's literally all we have to do for this first step.
I like to take that code we just copied and paste it
into a doc somewhere just so I don't have to come
back and then find it again if I end up getting distracted
or go back to watching my cat video or whatever.
If you have a custom website that you yourself have
complete access to, well, you need to put this code
in what's called the header section of each page that you want to
track on your website. The header section is pretty easy to find,
it's going to be in the alligator brackets and it
says "head". It's usually one of the first things
you see in your page code.
You don't have to be a programmer
to know how to do this.
You just have to be able to identify that text
and throw this somewhere in the middle.
Now, if you own a physical store, it's a little bit different.
You make sure that you take the code, you write it out,
and then you post it in the entry way when people walk in.
All right, now I will take that code
snippet and plug it into my website.
I'm going to show you how to do it in
WordPress, since something like 27% of
the internet is made up of WordPress sites. But other
platforms like SquareSpace and Wix will work similarly,
and they also have pretty much
the same process to get to this.
They make it very easy to do this, because
everybody does this at some point.
If you want to do this manually
yourself, because you're a doer,
well, then just open up the index file for each of your web pages
and then just look for those brackets where it says "head".
Drop it somewhere in there so it's not breaking up any
of the other script snippets you might already have.
Now, you can just stick it at the very beginning
or at the very end just to be safe.
Okay, so many WordPress themes will
have a section for Google Analytics.
I happen to be using one that doesn't.
Yay for me.
That's no problem though, because you can just
download the simple WordPress plugin with a
ridiculously obvious name. It's called
"Insert Headers and Footers."
As I mentioned a second ago, we'll need to insert that
code snippet into the header section and this plugin
will do the hard work of adding it to every page of
your site automatically, including any new pages
you had in the future.
So we go to Settings and then click
on Insert Headers and Footers.
Now we're going to paste in the copied code snippet
into the scripts in the header section. So right
click, paste, and there you go.
Now just click Save and we are good to go.
That is literally all there is to setting it up, really
shouldn't take you more than 15 minutes, and
that's only if you get distracted
halfway through the process.
Now, in the next lecture I'll show you how to dig
into the data and learn more about your visitors
once they start rolling in.
See you then.